---
layout: post
title: Hacks
description: Hacks
courses: {'csa': {'week': 1}}
comments: True
sticky_rank: 1
---

# Shell Commands
`wsl`: enters into wsl linux mode
`cd`: enters a specific directory
`git`: github related command like `git pull` or `git clone`
`apt`: allows users to install packages on Linux
`cat`: opens a file in the terminal, allowing the user to see its contents
`ls`: lists the files/folders in a certain directory
`pwd`: print working directory
`sudo`: authorizes the user and prompts for password so that they can perform certain commands

# Version Control
The files from the github repo are visible in the VS Code workspace after the repo is cloned. There are files in certain folders, which makes navigation easy.
The files are updated in GitHub when the user commits from VS Code onto GitHub. One has to go to the github repo page in order to navigate to those files.
You would have to run `git pull` from the portfolio_2025 repo on order to update it to its latest version.

# Localhost vs. Deployed Server
The command `make` is used to run on a localhost machine, and only you can see it, not anyone else. Every change that you make is updated right when you refresh the page.
When the page is deployed onto GitHub pages, the link is made public and everyone can see it.

# DNS and GitHub Pages
Yes, on my github pages, I have a domain. The domain is : adityasamavedam.github.io
Yes, the url is different from my neighbors' URLs. I didn't have to change the URL because it was the same as the github id.

